hello I'm guy I'm Pete Yeshua we're from
elbow
we're in Singapore and you're watching
imagine TV network we've been a band for
21 years were from Manchester in the
north of England Pete and I met when we
were 17 17 yeah and yeah same people for
21 years were all really good friends
and we've enjoyed some success in the UK
it's all going really well
we call the elbow which is
extraordinarily bad for a band name it's
a terrible band name but it came about
because we used to be called soft and
while while we were soft we made really
awful funk music he was really bad music
and we'd sent a lot of tapes to record
companies because it was back in the
days of cassettes we'd sent a lot of
tapes out under the name soft what our
music had changed a lot and we thought
we need to let people know it's
different so we need a new band name so
we decided that for a week we would
write down every idea that we had and
then we would choose a name and when we
got back together
a week later only I had put pen to paper
and the last thought this was very
amusing and I felt like I was the only
one that had done my homework so quiet -
angrily put my finger in the middle of
the page
and I said would called elbow and
they'll end that's a name and I
said oh no but that's what we're called
you've got an hour to court with
something better and nobody did nobody
could be bothered we got stoned instead
terrible band
if you if you tell your friends and your
family I've decided to be a musician
they sort of they look at like okay you
know so you've got that initial
everybody thinks I'm an idiot for doing
this you for choosing to spend my life
doing this you've got that to get over
and then you can really really love the
music you're making but nobody wants to
finance it now you've got to be able to
do that for 15 years you've got to love
doing it more than you don't and balance
split up because of personality clashes
because of mourning a million reasons to
split up your it's not like it's not
like it's not like athletics it's not
like you get good at it and you push and
you push and you're pushing in you and
you improve yourself it's like being in
a sandpit you got to enjoy being in the
sandpit you've got to enjoy playing
literally having fun more than you and
more than you wanna stop you've got to
want to carry on that sounds really
obvious does me I think just just having
really good friends and you know
travelling travelling amazing and
playing your music you know in in
different countries amazing but I won't
want to do it with people that didn't
like her I couldn't accompany us you
know you come across with the balance
when you travelling as well you know
festivals especially and you come across
personalities that you know you couldn't
work with you know the fact the matter
is that in the 21 years we've been
together there hasn't been a period
longer than three weeks that we've been
apart you know so you've got to be in
you've got to be in a band you know if
there's all kinds of different formats
but usually you've got one or two
songwriters and everybody else is kind
of second-class whereas with us all five
was right
all five was in the same money so that I
think that's one of the reasons we
stayed together because we split
everything equally
I am somebody that if I watch a good
film I want to be a film director or an
actor for read a good book I want to be
an author
I think everybody's like that to a
degree and but where musics concerned we
all have that all five of us have that
desire to be good at that one thing and
I think really and this this sounds kind
of this sounds like I'm saying it just
for saying it but I think the other band
members my biggest teacher and I'm the
only lyricist in the band but I've run
all male expire the others and we all
right for each other and whether or not
an idea is good is determined by whether
or not everybody likes it in the band
and if they don't like if worth one
person doesn't like it the rest of us
will listen to that you know we respect
each others opinions it means that it
takes ages to write music because every
decision has to be poured over and
there's a lot of decisions go into even
one song it's changed a little bit that
there wasn't because now we we trust
each other a lot more because we spent
so much time with each other and
something you know in the past it got no
I'm completely right about this but
we've kind of learned that you're not
always right which made the last album
and the music that we're working on now
a lot easier think yeah I'd agree with
that I suppose yeah the benefits of time
is that you learn to trust each other's
opinions
you